---
title: MATLAB
---

## Example 1
To use Matlab, simply load the module. You do however need to pass some
parameters to run a script headless.

<div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed">
<div style="font-weight: bold; line-height: 1.6;">

`matlab.cmd`

</div>

    #!/usr/bin/bash
    #SBATCH --nodes=1
    #SBATCH --exclusive
    #SBATCH --partition=your.partition.q
    #SBATCH --output=slurm-%j.out
    #SBATCH --time=00:01:00

    module load matlab/current
    matlab -nodisplay -nojvm -nosplash -r "run('main.m'), quit"
    module unload matlab

</div>
<div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed">
<div style="font-weight: bold; line-height: 1.6;">

`main.m`

</div>

    fprintf('Hello, world!\n')

</div>

Run as `sbatch matlab.cmd`. You will notice the script reserves a full
compute node to run the Matlab script. This is because it does not seem
to be possible currently to restrict the number of cores Matlab will
use.


## Example 2
This tutorial assumes you've read all previous
[tutorials](/Novice_information#Tutorials "wikilink"). So, please open a
terminal and log in to the cluster.

If you want to run a script (a `*.m` file), you must first create/upload
the `*.m` file. You can write this file in the MATLAB editor either on
the cluster and save it directly, or on your own desktop and upload it
to the cluster. Secondly, you can write a wrapper script to call your
MATLAB script from the compute cluster. This wrapper file can be a
simple text file, containing the specifications of the job (number of
nodes, etc.), with a command to load the desired MATLAB module, and a
command to run the specified script. An example is given below. Note the
`-batch` argument, which specifies that the MATLAB module does not need
to be started visually, but in batch mode. Furthermore, please include
the `-singleCompThread` option, to limit the compute resources.

`#!/usr/bin/bash`
`#SBATCH --partition=tue.test.q`
`#SBATCH --output=openme.out`

`module load matlab/2018b`
`matlab -batch "myscript.m" -singleCompThread`

A wrapper such as this can be saved as a simple text file, for instance
`wrapper.txt`. To
[schedule](/Scheduling_calculation_jobs_(Slurm) "wikilink") the job like
we did [before](/Submit_a_job_for_the_first_time "wikilink"), you simply
run

`sbatch wrapper.txt`

Once the job completes, you will see that a file `openme.out` has been
created which contains the output generated by the MATLAB script.