---
date: 2024-12-12
start: 2025-01-31T12:00:00
end: 2025-01-31T13:00:00
hero:
  backdrop: blog/events/2025/etp.png
title: "UPDATED: Experimental Technologies Platform"
description: Join us as SURF presents the Experimental Technologies Platform (ETP) to researchers at the TU/e.
categories: [ Training ]
speakers: [ ]
price: 0.00
location: Neuron 0.116
image: blog/events/2025/etp.png
type: event
sponsors: [ surf.nl ]
registration:
  enabled: true
  options:
    - { title: Register Now, url: https://forms.office.com/e/qgK7MdXm2a, qr: true }
schedule:
  - { title: Experimental Technologies Platform, start: 2025-01-31T12:00:00, end: 2025-01-31T13:00:00, location: "Neuron 0.116",
      schedule: [
        { start: 2025-04-01T12:00:00, end: 2025-04-01T12:15:00, title: Networking Lunch },
        { start: 2025-04-01T12:15:00, end: 2025-04-01T12:45:00, title: Presentation },
        { start: 2025-04-01T12:45:00, end: 2025-04-01T13:00:00, title: "Discussion and Q&A" },
      ]
  }
---

# Experimental Technologies Platform (ETP)

!!! warning "New Date"

    Due to [recent events](https://www.tue.nl/cyberattack){:target=_blank}, the Eindhoven University of Technology has
    postponed the event to **January 31st**, from 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM in **Neuron 0.116**. Please update your calendars!

Join in this lunch session as SURF presents the 
[Experimental Technologies Platform](https://www.surf.nl/en/etp){:target=_blank} (ETP) to researchers at the TU/e.

In response to future challenges in scientific research and computing, SURF introduces the Experimental Technologies
Platform: an open collaborative environment where the sector can experiment with cutting-edge ICT technologies and
methodologies in advanced computing and data-driven science.

Event hosted by the TU/e's Supercomputing Center in collaboration with SURF. For questions or comments please email
[hpc-training@tue.nl](mailto:hpc-training@tue.nl)

<!-- more -->

## About the Experimental Technologies Platform

The Experimental Technologies Platform (ETP) has a broad experimentation scope within advanced computing and data driven
science: the platform strives to connect with external infrastructures, promoting cross-disciplinary partnerships and
involving external stakeholders.

## Scope of the platform

- **Optimizing complex workflows**. We aim to facilitate the creation, implementation, assessment, and refinement of
  complex workflows in research and technology applications. Our mission entails a comprehensive evaluation of all
  components of the system and their interaction with one another and the environment, seeking to streamline and enhance
  the entire workflow process.
- **Enhancing energy efficiency and effectiveness**. The platform will be equipped with advanced performance and energy
  monitoring tools which provide transparent, exhaustive insights into both the infrastructure and applications,
  offering guidance on energy efficiency enhancements.
- **Fostering a vibrant ecosystem** where professionals from different backgrounds come together to explore emerging
  concepts, methodologies, applications and cutting-edge technologies. The ultimate goal is to boost knowledge of Dutch
  researchers and computational scientists. Information about engagement opportunities will be readily available through
  various communication channels to ensure inclusivity.
- **Promote knowledge dissemination** by organizing workshops, discussions and seminars tailored to both specific and
  open audiences. Our focus revolves around the practical utilization of experimental technologies and their impact on
  applications.

## For whom?

The Experimental Technologies Platform will be of especial interest for researchers, vendors, application developers and
IT engineers developing emerging technologies and methodologies.

## FAQ

For an overview of frequently asked questions and answers: see
the [FAQ](https://servicedesk.surf.nl/wiki/display/WIKI/FAQs+Experimental+Technologies+Platform){:target=_blank}. Also a
list of [references](https://servicedesk.surf.nl/wiki/display/WIKI/Experimental+Technologies+Platform){:target=_blank}
is available.
