---
draft: false 
date: 2023-08-09
categories: [ Umbrella HPC Cluster ]
tags: [HPC]
authors: [a.c.m.bertens, a.van.hoof, e.loomeijer]
type: maintenance
---

# 2023-Q3 Umbrella HPC Cluster maintenance completed

Cluster maintenance completed. For more details click on the "Continue reading" link.

<!-- more -->

### What did happen?

-   Maintenance: the Cluster Scheduler (Slurm) was upgraded to version
    22.05.9 and the Cluster Manager (Bright Cluster Manager) to version
    9.2.
-   Security: firmware updates were installed on all hardware and the OS
    (Centos 7.9) was upgraded to include the latest security patches.
-   Extra: the NewBuild/AMD module is now loaded by default.

### What is the impact?

-   As the NewBuild/AMD module is now loaded by default, a lot of extra
    modules are available by default, ScyPy, PyTorch and R, just to name
    a few. The foss/2022a module has a more recent GCC and OpenMPI.
-   When using more memory than available on a node swap will not be
    utilized and the job will be cancelled.
-   Other changes allow the HPC Lab to implement more features and add
    usability; more information will follow.

### What do you need to do?

Just use the cluster as always. If have issues, first check the
maintenance FAQ: [Known Issues](https://hpcwiki.tue.nl/wiki/Detailed_Information_Maintenance_August_2023#Known_issues)

### Reminder:

Data (incl. home directories) in the HPC Cluster is NOT backed up! The
HPC Cluster is not a solution for archiving your work!

You are FULLY responsible for your own data management!

### Questions?

For questions and remarks please contact <hpcsupport@tue.nl>.

## Known issues

If your issue is not on this list, please contact us!

### Lumerical

Lumerical has issues running through SSH with X11 forwarding enabled. If
possible, try to avoid using Lumerical with X11 forwarding. Instead, use
the following workflow:

1.  Prepare your job in the Open OnDemand web interface, in an
    interactive desktop session.
2.  Once your .LSF file is prepared, submit a job; see
    <https://hpcwiki.tue.nl/wiki/Ansys_Lumerical#Submitting_a_Lumerical_job>
3.  Once your job is done, view the results using the Open OnDemand web
    interface.

More detailed instructions can be found
[here](../../../../documentation/software/recipes/ansys_lumerical.md). If you experience further issues,
or if this workflow doesn't suit your needs, please contact us.

??? abstract "Planning & Considerations"
     ## Planning
     
     ### Activities under consideration
     
     -   Slurm: gres.conf: Bright 9.2-13 will do autodetection of GPU MIG, so
         we should remove MIGs from gres.conf.
         -   The gres.conf file is generated by CMD, so we don't know if we
             need to change anything now.
         -   Must see how this configurable in CMD.
         -   Verify after upgrade if our own (new) GPU node can do MIG.
         -   Discuss with the MOLML group if they want to MIG their new GPUs.
     
     To discuss:
     
     -   Python: make sure users do module load NumPy (e.g.) first, and only
         then start pip'ing. Maybe document this better on the wiki? Maybe
         make Pip warn the user to load modules first.
     
     <!-- -->
     
     -   Tests:
         -   OFED stack
         -   GPU compute / CUDA
     
     To do:
     
     -   Emily: prepares OSimages
     -   Guus: checks Slurm stuff
     -   Guus: makes skeleton plan, ordered priority
     -   Alain: figures out CM upgrade path
     
     ### Planned activities
     
     Preparation:
     
     -   <s>Plan downtime in Zabbix to avoid panic in Server Platform
         team.</s> Done!
     
     During maintenance window:
     
     1.  <s>Cancel jobs, close queues, shutdown login nodes</s> Login nodes
         were disabled from within Bright.
         No shutdown of other nodes, because not all nodes have IPMI, so we
         cannot necessarily get them up.
     2.  <s>Backup slurm.conf</s> Copied to /root/maintenance202308
     3.  <s>Backup `slapcat`</s> Copied to /root/maintenance202308
     4.  <s>Backup SQL databases</s> Copied to /root/maintenance202308
     5.  <s>Slurm: update to latest version within Bright 8.2; see
         <https://kb.brightcomputing.com/knowledge-base/upgrading-slurm/></s>
         Needed to fix permissions on /etc/slurm/slurmdbd.conf file: were
         root-644, are now slurm-600.
         FIXME: Slurmdbd doesn't run as user Slurm; is this intended?
     6.  <s>Bright: upgrade to newer version (9.2)</s>
         <https://kb.brightcomputing.com/knowledge-base/how-do-i-upgrade-to-bright-9-2/>
         <s>This includes disabling Slurm in Bright</s>
         Problem occurred with `cm-post-upgrade -m` on the secondary node.
         Solution was to hard code the name of the primary head node in the
         cm-post-upgrade script.
         Problem occurred with `cm-upgrade -x` on prmary node. Solution was
         to remove grafana-oss.repo from /etc/yum.repos.d on the primary
         node.
     7.  <s>Slurm: upgrade to newest version with yum</s>
         Upgrading straight to 23.05 wasn't possible; we decided to stick
         with 22.05 instead.
     8.  <s>Enable Slurm within Bright using `wlm-setup`</s>
     9.  <s>OSImages: Update kernel/packages (and activate new kernel in
         Bright)</s> Done.
         -   Must. Rollback is "easy": can just clone image, modify, deploy,
             test.
     10. <s>OSImages: make separate image for old GPU node, on which Nvidia
         driver cannot be too new.</s> Done.
         -   Must. To save work every time we reboot this node.
     11. <s>OSImages: Remove `rclone` package from all images (encourage the
         use of modules)</s> Done.
         -   Must. If we do this, we're completely identical to Snellius and
             Snellius manual applies.
     12. <s>OSImages: Install `fuse3` libraries on the login nodes to support
         user mounts with ResearchDrive.</s> Done.
         -   Should. This enables mounting e.g. ResearchDrive.
     13. <s>OSImages: PAM: enable pam_slurm_adopt on compute nodes. Places
         processes launched through SSH in per-job cgroups.</s> Done.
         To install, do `yum install slurm-pam` in OS images.
         To verify, make sure that /etc/pam/ssh at some point invokes the
         pam_slurm_adopt plugin.
     14. <s>Modules: Fix: flexiblas BLAS backend "OPENBLAS-SERIAL" not found.
         Loading default (OPENBLAS) instead.
         To fix: `yum remove nwchem nwchem-common` in the OSimages. No other
         packages seem to depend on these.</s>
     15. <s>Hardware: Upgrade DELL firmware (not 10Gb Broadcom)</s>
     16. <s>Hardware: Reboot all nodes</s>
         Do in batches of 20 or so, to avoid congestion on storage and
         network.
     17. Various changes to Slurm configuration:
         -   Run Slurm tests before, between, and after changes! Tests are
             stored in EasyBuild user home dir.
         -   <s>Slurm: enable enhanced job prioritisation and fair share,
             i.e. `PriorityType=priority/multifactor`. In slurm.conf:</s>
             PriorityType=priority/multifactor
             # PriorityDecayHalfLife default 7 days
             # PriorityCalcPeriod default 5 minutes
             # PriorityUsageResetPeriod default off
             # PriorityFavorSmall default NO
             PriorityMaxAge=116-0   # 116 days = 1e7 seconds
             PriorityWeightAge=1000000  # 1e6, so age accuracy is 1e7/1e6 = 10 seconds
             # PriorityWeightAssoc= default is 0
             # PriorityWeightFairshare= default is 0
             # PriorityWeightJobSize= default is 0
             # PriorityWeightPartition= default is 0
             # PriorityWeightQOS= default is 0
             # PriorityWeightTRES= default is empty
             # PriorityFlags= default is none
     
             Should give behaviour very similar to FIFO scheduling.
         -   <s>Enable Slurm Cgroup job constraints. In slurm.conf:</s>
             JobAcctGatherType=jobacct_gather/cgroup
     
             Constrain swap (=swap+ram) instead of RAM only. In cgroup.conf:
     
                 # AllowedRAMSpace default is 100%
                 # AllowedSwapSpace default is 0%
                 ConstrainCores=yes
                 ConstrainDevices=yes
                 # ConstrainRAMSpace default is no
                 ConstrainSwapSpace=yes
                 # MaxRAMPercent default is 100%
                 # MaxSwapPercent default is 100%
                 # MemorySwappiness default is empty
                 # MinRAMSpace default is 30MB
         -   <s>Enable `--gpu=X` parameter, to be compliant with Snellius. In
             slurm.conf:</s>
             SelectType=select/cons_tres
         -   MIG only supported starting Slurm 21.08
     18. Modules: Enable `NewBuild/AMD` as default source
         -   Must.
         -   See if we can rename this to "eb_prod" just like on Snellius.
         -   Remove gcc from default loaded modules.
     19. Fix PostFix relayhost configuration on compute/login/head nodes.
     
     After maintenance window:
     
     -   Communicate to users
         -   Must.
         -   Inform users of changes that they'll notice.
     -   Update backlog of backlogs; some of these points are on there.
     
     ### Rejected activities
     
     -   Slurm: enable interactive X11 jobs. See
         [https://slurm.schedmd.com/faq.html#x11](https://slurm.schedmd.com/faq.html#x11){:target=_blank}.
         In practice: set `PrologFlags=X11` in slurm.conf.
         -   Won't. We direct users to use Open OnDemand for graphical use
             cases.
     
     <!-- -->
     
     -   Slurm: configure super low prio background queue. This allows short
         jobs (how short?) to run on unused compute capacity.
         -   Won't. This requires more communication with all parties
             involved. Also, we can probably do this without downtime.
         -   Guus: to make sure tasks don't bite each other, enforce memory
             constraints, and give tasks default mem, e.g. 2GB/cpu. This will
             require that job scripts be modified to correctly run again.
             Perhaps enable Slurm cgroup accounting, so users can get better
             info on job mem usage.
     
     <!-- -->
     
     -   Modules: replace TCL modules command with Lmod command.
         -   Won't. For now EasyBuild works for us and we already have a lot
             of TCL modules. We'd rather start with Lmod on the "new"
             cluster.
     
     <!-- -->
     
     -   Configure Open OnDemand?
         -   Won't. We don't need a maintenance window for this.
         -   We love OOD.
         -   It currently runs on tue-login001, which is a SPOF. We accept
             this risk for now.
     
     <!-- -->
     
     -   Storage: repurpose central Ceph storage nodes as scratch storage
         within Umbrella cluster (Guus). This is an idea, we can't do it this
         time, but let's discuss it nonetheless.
         -   Implement auto-delete after e.g. 3 months for scratch data.
         -   Won't. Not until we have the hardware. Maybe try this
             immediately on the new cluster.
     
     <!-- -->
     
     -   Enable use of containers through SLURM
         -   Won't. Singularity/Apptainer is more important.
     
     <!-- -->
     
     -   Enable use of Singularity/Apptainer
         -   Won't. We want to do this for repeatable science, but the
             current list is long enough.
     
     <!-- -->
     
     -   Bright: enable Jupyter Hub functionality
         -   Rather not through Bright to avoid dependency on Bright.
         -   This means we'll do it outside of the maintenance window.
         -   Maybe not needed, because OOD includes a Jupyter notebook.
             Figure out if OOD Jupyter is enough, or if JupyterHub offers
             more important functionality. Collab on single notebook? - is
             this just edu or also research? Is Han arranging something in
             Azure?
     
     <!-- -->
     
     -   Allocate memory and CPUs, not just CPUs. In slurm.conf:
     
     SelectTypeParameters=CR_CPU_Memory
     
     </pre>
     
     Note: should also set DefMemPerCpu to make this \*really\* useful.
     
     -   -   We decided to postpone this, because this would change the UX:
             users would need to change their job scripts. Gerson suggested
             to phase this in, i.e. configure this later.
     
     ## Log
